#summary Download Information for the OWASP Broken Web Applications Project
#labels Featured

= Downloads =

Version 0.92rc2 of the OWASP Broken Web Applications Virtual Machine (VM) was released on November 15, 2010.

The VM is in [http://www.vmware.com VMware] format compatible with their no-cost [http://www.vmware.com/products/player/ VMware Player] and [http://www.vmware.com/products/server/ VMware Server] products (along with their commercial products).  

The VM can be downloaded as a .zip file or as a much smaller [http://www.7-zip.org/ .7z 7-zip Archive].  *BOTH FILES CONTAIN THE EXACT SAME VM!*  I recommend that you download the .7z archive if possible to save bandwidth (and time). 7-zip IS [http://www.7-zip.org/download.html available for Mac, Linux, and other Operating Systems].

Download from [https://sourceforge.net/projects/owaspbwa/files/ https://sourceforge.net/projects/owaspbwa/files/].

.7z File:
  * Size: 606 MB 
  * MD5: 6d8340e0b3e43c4ddd7c5c34abb71418

Zip File:
  * Size: 905 MB
  * MD5: eddf31730f14a0923edcd84f9a7c392f

= Installation =

The VM requires no installation.  Simply extract the files from the archive and then start the VM in a VMware product.  Once the machine is booted, you can access it via the console, SSH, or Samba using username=root and password=owaspbwa.

Note - The VM is entirely command line driven.  X-Windows or other GUI systems have not been installed.

If you would like to access your VM from links off this site, the one configuration change you may need to make is to add an entry to your hosts file pointing to the name owaspbwa to the IP address of your VM.  It is recommended that you do this so that you can follow links on this web site to pages on your local OWASPBWA VM.

= Known Bugs = 

All known bugs (not the intentional security issues) in the VM are in the Google Code issue tracker (see "Issues" in the menu above).  Please report any additional bugs you discover.

The known security vulnerabilities in the applications are tracked at http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/owaspbwa/report/1.  Please submit any additional issues that you discover.