#summary A summary of the OWASP Broken Web Applications project
#labels Featured

= Virtual Machine Format =

The Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) Broken Web Applications Project is distributed as a Virtual Machine in [http://www.vmware.com VMware] format compatible with their no-cost [http://www.vmware.com/products/player/ VMware Player] and [http://www.vmware.com/products/server/ VMware Server] products (along with their commercial products).

= Applications included (as of the 1.0 release) =

This project includes applications from various sources (listed in no particular order).

==Training Applications:==
  * [http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_WebGoat_Project OWASP WebGoat] version 5.4+SVN (Java)
  * [https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_WebGoat.NET OWASP WebGoat.NET] version 2011-10-19+GIT
  * [https://www.owasp.org/index.php/ESAPI_Swingset OWASP ESAPI Java SwingSet Interactive] version 1.0.1+SVN
  * [http://code.google.com/p/zaproxy/ OWASP ZAP-WAVE] version 0.2+SVN (Java JSP)
  * [http://www.irongeek.com/i.php?page=security/mutillidae-deliberately-vulnerable-php-owasp-top-10 Mutillidae] version 2.1.20 (PHP)
  * [http://www.dvwa.co.uk/ Damn Vulnerable Web Application] version 1.8+SVN (PHP)
  * [http://www.gh0s7.net/ Ghost] (PHP)

  
==Realistic, Intentionally Vulnerable Applications:==
  * [http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_Vicnum_Project OWASP Vicnum] version 1.4 (PHP/Perl)
  * [http://peruggia.sourceforge.net/ Peruggia] version 1.2 (PHP)
  * [http://google-gruyere.appspot.com/ Google Gruyere] version 2010-07-15 (Python)
  * [http://hackxor.sourceforge.net/cgi-bin/index.pl Hackxor] (Java JSP)
  * [https://github.com/adamdoupe/WackoPicko WackoPicko] (PHP)
  * [http://code.google.com/p/bodgeit/ BodgeIt] (Java JSP)

==Old Versions of Real Applications:==
  * [http://wordpress.org/ WordPress] 2.0.0 (PHP, released December 31, 2005, downloaded from [http://www.oldapps.com/Wordpress.php www.oldapps.com])
  * [http://sourceforge.net/projects/getboo/ GetBoo] version 1.04 (PHP, released April 7, 2008)
  * [http://www.forumsoftware.ca/ Yazd] version 1.0 (Java, released February 20, 2002)
  * [http://www.k5n.us/webcalendar.php WebCalendar] version 1.03 (PHP, released April 11, 2006)
  * [http://owaspbwa/tikiwiki TikiWiki] version 1.9.5 (PHP, released September 5, 2006)
  * [http://awstats.sourceforge.net/ AWStats] version 6.4 (build 1.814, Perl, released February 25,2005)
  * [http://www.orangehrm.com/ OrangeHRM] version 2.4.2 (PHP, released May 7, 2009)
  * [http://www.gtd-php.com/ gtd-php] version 0.7 (PHP, released September 30, 2006)
  * [http://gallery.menalto.com/ Gallery2] version 2.1 (PHP, released March 23, 2006)
  * [http://www.joomla.org/ Joomla] version 1.5.15 (PHP, released November 4, 2009)

==Demonstration Pages / Small Applications:==
  * [http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_CSRFGuard_Project OWASP CSRFGuard] Test Application version 2.2 (Java)
  * [http://www.mandiant.com/ Mandiant] Struts Forms (Java/Struts)
  * Simple ASP.NET Forms (ASP.NET/C#)
  * Simple Form with DOM Cross Site Scripting (HTML/!JavaScript)
  
==OWASP Demonstration Applications==  
  * [http://www.owasp.org/index.php/Category:OWASP_AppSensor_Project OWASP AppSensor Demo Application] (Java)  
  
= Download = 

See the [Downloads downloads page] for information about where to get the VM.

= User Accounts =

Application accounts are now detailed on the home page within the VM.

= Management =

Once booted, the VM can be administered few a few different mechanisms. Note, I don't consider these components "in scope" for the vulnerabilities in the VM... they are just there to support management.  Administrative interfaces:
  * SSH
  * Samba shares
  * Console login
  * PHPMyAdmin (at `http://owaspbwa/phpmyadmin`)

*In all cases, use a username of "root" and a password of "owaspbwa".*

= Vulnerabilities =

The known security vulnerabilities in the applications are tracked at http://sourceforge.net/apps/trac/owaspbwa/report/1. Please submit any additional issues that you discover. 

= Known Bugs = 

All known bugs (not the intentional security issues) in the VM are in the Google Code issue tracker (see "Issues" in the menu above).  Please report any additional bugs you discover.